holyland photographs this podcast is at
the basic level it requires no knowledge
of accordance Bible software or Hebrew
or Greek one of the great things about
studying the Bible today is the graphic
images that are available as any college
professor sabbith or sunday school
teacher can tell you a picture is worth
a thousand words that carries special
meaning when one is trying to capture
the imagination or even just the
attention of one of today's students in
this podcast we're going to review two
very different photo collections of the
Holy Land photo guide three and our
newest release Todd Bolin's biblical
places American colony both of these
collections feature exquisite
photography and detailed high-resolution
images both modules have multiple search
fields and excellent integration into
the accordance interface and both are
included in the new search on graphics
feature I'd consider either or both
excellent for teaching and presentations
on biblical places people and their
culture these two collections are very
different however photo guide 3 contains
1600 color photographs taken between
1974 and 2008 it's more like a
photographic atlas with a history of
biblical times and abundant scripture
references it also has superior
photographs of archeological digs sites
and various artifacts weighing in at 560
megabytes it's normally priced at $79
the biblical places American colony
collection has four thousand photographs
two and a half times the number of photo
guide three although they are only black
and white that's to be expected as they
were taken between 1898 and 1946 the
strengths of this collection are its
photographs of traditional life and the
historical photographs of the Holy Land
in the late nineteenth and early
twentieth century the module is huge at
one point four gigabytes and normally
retails for a hundred and forty nine
dollars here's a couple of photographs
that capture the essential difference
between these two collections first up
is a photograph taken a century ago when
the land outside the
also Jerusalem was still agricultural
this is before World War two the
reestablishment of Israel is a state or
the urbanization that soon followed the
Jerusalem of a century later looks very
different the inner city is much the
same at least from afar but the field
surrounding it are gone instead the
hills now team with houses the streets
are crowded with cars and satellite
dishes and television antennas are
everywhere the bustle of modern
civilization has invaded the holy land
this kind of contrast makes it easy to
understand Ted Bolin when he says today
these photographs transport the viewer
chronologically we can go back through
the lens of the photographer to sites
before they were excavated panoramas
before they were polluted villages
before they were urbanized and people
before they abandoned the way of life of
their fathers biblical places the
American colony collection some of these
photographs capture scenes reminiscent
of those in the Bible such as this
couple traveling by donkey with an
infant others portrayed traditional
crafts like this one it shows a man
making part of a plow with a bow driven
drill or all here's a completed plow
along with a collection of other
primitive farm implements likely
familiar to anyone in the biblical
period here's a Bedouin ploughing with a
camel and a fisherman throwing a hand
net at sunset one of the most beautiful
black-and-white photographs I have ever
seen a Potter using a traditional
potter's wheel notice that the two
wheels are connected by an axle the
Potter turns the larger wheel with his
feet while molding the clay on the upper
wheel with his hands here's a posed
photo of a woman with a water jug
drawing water from a well outside of
Bethlehem and the perspective of this
photo is very rare something modern
visitors at least non-muslims are rarely
allowed to see it's a view of the Golden
Gate from the inside and some of these
photographs can help us understand the
meaning of a common biblical threat like
an attack of locusts here
photo of a healthy fig tree now here's
that same tree after the locust plague
of 1915 photo guide 3 there are times
when photo guide 3 captures beautiful
images still unspoiled by encroaching
civilization like this scene of the
Jordan River near the Sea of Galilee but
sometimes these color images come at a
price as here when they also capture the
modern buildings around the Sea of
Galilee nevertheless and this is the
reality of the Holy Land today as that
in modern touristy Israel can tell you
thankfully many of the ancient sites
have been preserved by the Israeli
Department of Antiquities like this
archaeological dig at bare Sheba a four
horned alter discovered at the site
notice that the stones are shaped
contrary to the law of Moses the sherds
of three storage jars were discovered in
nearby store houses here the
reconstructed vessels are on display
tourists can still see these primitive
carpenters tools today they're on
display at the nazareth village and
these stone stables at Megiddo were
thought to have been built by Solomon
until modern excavations dated them
later to the 9th century the largest
stone in the foreground has been
chiseled into a manger a feeding trough
which held grain or hay for the horses
Mary would have laid the infant Jesus in
something very similar this unique photo
was taken from inside Herod's family
tomb note the round rock at the upper
right poised to drop into the slot and
thereby seal the tomb and these two
photographs show part of the extensive
water system at Qumran built for their
cleansing ceremonies the left photo
shows an ancient aquaduct to the right
several cisterns in which water was
stored note the remains of the clay
plaster which was necessary to make the
porous limestone watertight the Isle of
Patmos where John is said to have penned
the apocalypse just below and to the
left of this seminary is the edifice
which marks the entrance to the grotto
of the Apocalypse the cave in which Joe
is believed to have received as
apocalyptic visions and here's the
mosaic above the entrance to the grotto
of the Apocalypse it depicts st. John
receiving the revelation from God and
dictating it to his disciple Pro chorus
Wow decisions decisions I really can't
offer any advice on making this choice
assuming you must limit yourself to only
one of these great collections i will
say that whichever one you choose you
really can't go wrong these images will
enhance your own understanding of the
Bible it's people in places and those
whom you teach whether they be your
family your friends or your students
this has been dr. J for accordance Bible
Software thank you for watching this
episode of lighting the lamp